Smart contracts 101: counter contract (#713)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/mainnet/smart-contracts/tutorials/counter/counter-contract.rst

            Error::OwnerError
        );

        ensure!(param > 0, Error::IncrementError);
        state.counter += param;
        Ok(())
    }

Decrement counter
-----------------

Add a new mutable function to implement decrement with a similar approach. It will also take an input parameter but this time we need to make sure that it is negative because a violation will be caused by an Error::DecrementError, like the other one this can be triggered by only the owner of the contract-otherwise it will throw an Error::OwnerError.

.. code-block:: rust

    #[receive(
        contract = "counter",
        name = "decrement",
        parameter = "i8",
        error = "Error",
        mutable
    )]
    fn decrement<S: HasStateApi>(
        ctx: &impl HasReceiveContext,
        host: &mut impl HasHost<State, StateApiType = S>,
    ) -> Result<(), Error> {
        // Your code

        let param: IncrementVal = ctx.parameter_cursor().get()?;
        let state = host.state_mut();
        ensure!(
            ctx.sender().matches_account(&ctx.owner()),
            Error::OwnerError
        );

        ensure!(param < 0, Error::DecrementError);

>         state.counter -= param;

Reviewer: So you ensure it is negative, but then you subtract it. Is that desired? Calling it `decrement` in that case seems misleading.

Reviewer 2: Line 132 should be "state.counter += param; "

        Ok(())
    }

View function
-------------

> The view function will return only the counters value so you need to update its return value as u8 and return it from the host.state().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The view function will return only the counters value so you need to update its return value as i8 and return it from the host.state().
```

        #[from(ParseError)]
        ParseParamsError,
        /// Your error
        OwnerError,
        IncrementError,
        DecrementError,
    }

    /// Init function that creates a new smart contract.
    #[init(contract = "counter")]
    fn init<S: HasStateApi>(
        _ctx: &impl HasInitContext,
        _state_builder: &mut StateBuilder<S>,
    ) -> InitResult<State> {
        // Your code

        Ok(State { counter: 0 })
    }

Increment and decrement counter
===============================

Increment counter
-----------------

Then change the update function as described below, let’s remember what we want; input needs to be parsed without any errors, the value should be positive(otherwise we will get an Error::IncrementError and the transaction should be triggered by the owner of the contract instance or it will throw Error::OwnerError and the function itself has to be a mutable function because we are going to change the state of the contract.

.. code-block:: rust

    type IncrementVal = i8;
    /// Receive function. The input parameter is the boolean variable `throw_error`.
    ///  If `throw_error == true`, the receive function will throw a custom error.

>     ///  If `throw_error == false`, the receive function executes successfully.

Author: @bogacyigitbasi What was the corrected text so it matches what you have in the example contract?

    enum Error {
        /// Failed parsing the parameter.
        #[from(ParseError)]
        ParseParamsError,
        /// Your error
        OwnerError,
        IncrementError,
        DecrementError,
    }

    /// Init function that creates a new smart contract.
    #[init(contract = "counter")]
    fn init<S: HasStateApi>(
        _ctx: &impl HasInitContext,
        _state_builder: &mut StateBuilder<S>,
    ) -> InitResult<State> {
        // Your code

        Ok(State { counter: 0 })
    }

Increment and decrement counter
===============================

Increment counter
-----------------

Then change the update function as described below. Remember that input needs to be parsed without any errors. The value must be positive, otherwise you will get an ``Error::IncrementError``. The transaction must be triggered by the owner of the contract instance or it will throw ``Error::OwnerError``. And the function itself has to be a mutable function because you are going to change the state of the contract.

.. code-block:: rust

    type IncrementVal = i8;
    /// Receive function. The input parameter is the increment value `i8`.

>     ///  If the account owner does not match the contract owner, the receive function will throw a custom error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ///  If the account owner does not match the contract owner, the receive function will throw [`Error::OwnerError`].
```

>     ///  If the number to increment by is negative, the receive function will throw a custom error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ///  If the number to increment by is not positive, the receive function will throw [`Error::IncrementError`].
```
(0 is also not allowed).

        parameter = "i8",
        error = "Error",
        mutable
    )]
    fn decrement<S: HasStateApi>(
        ctx: &impl HasReceiveContext,
        host: &mut impl HasHost<State, StateApiType = S>,
    ) -> Result<(), Error> {
        // Your code

        let param: IncrementVal = ctx.parameter_cursor().get()?;
        let state = host.state_mut();
        ensure!(
            ctx.sender().matches_account(&ctx.owner()),
            Error::OwnerError
        );

        ensure!(param < 0, Error::DecrementError);
        state.counter += param;
        Ok(())
    }

View function
-------------

The view function will return only the counters value so you need to update its return value as i8 and return it from the host.state().

.. code-block:: rust

    /// View function that returns the content of the state.
    #[receive(contract = "counter", name = "view", return_value = "i8")]
    fn view<'a, 'b, S: HasStateApi>(
        _ctx: &'a impl HasReceiveContext,
        host: &'b impl HasHost<State, StateApiType = S>,
    ) -> ReceiveResult<i8> {
        Ok(host.state().counter)
    }

Build, deploy, and initialize the contract
==========================================

> Create a dist folder to keep the schema output file and Wasm compiled contract in and run the build command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a ``dist`` folder to keep the schema output file and Wasm compiled contract in and run the build command.
```

.. code-block:: console

    concordium-client contract update <YOUR-CONTRACT-INSTANCE> --entrypoint increment --parameter-json <PATH-TO-JSON> --schema dist/smart-contract-multi/schema.bin --sender <YOUR-ADDRESS> --energy 6000 --grpc-port 10001

Start by testing with your conditions. First, try another account other than the owner of the contract since you want that only the owner can call this function.

.. image:: images/owner-error.png
    :width: 100%

You get error code: -2. Check the developer portal of Concordium for information about :ref:`custom errors<custom-errors>`. Basically, -2 means you are calling the second error code from your Error enum, which is OwnerError. So that means you have fulfilled the requirement that only the owner can call these functions. Update the state with number 2 now.

.. image:: images/owner-error-ok.png
    :width: 100%

Now check the state once more.

.. image:: images/invoke2.png
    :width: 100%

> Unsurprisingly, the state is 2. Now check the other requirement: that you cannot increment it with a negative number. Change the value in the json file to a negative number like -2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsurprisingly, the state is 2. Now check the other requirement: that you cannot increment it with a negative number. Change the value in the JSON file to a negative number like -2.
```
